---
title: "Word Find!"
date: "2019-03-15"
challenger: "duhl"
language: "javascript"
tags: "arrays, functions, recursion"
difficulty: "hard"
---

## Challenge Rules

In word search puzzles you get a square of letters and have to find specific words in them.

For example:

jefblpepre
camdcimgtc
oivokprjsm
pbwasqroua
rixilelhrs
wolcqlirpc
screeaumgr
alxhpburyi
jalaycalmp
clojurermt
There are several programming languages hidden in the above square.

Words can be hidden in all kinds of directions: left-to-right, right-to-left, vertical and diagonal.

Given a puzzle and a list of words return the location of the first and last letter of each word.

## Solutions

This problem is so complex that we're guaranteed to not have one clear "correct" solution, many tradeoffs must be made. We got two awesome but very different solutions:

This strategy is basically to find the first letter of each word then check in every direction for the next letter and so on until we find the entire word.
<a target="_blank" href="https://codepen.io/anon/pen/YgaLXZ">https://codepen.io/anon/pen/YgaLXZ</a>

Next we get a very different strategy. Here we're building out arrays for each possible direction for each row, recursing through them until we find each word.
<a target="_blank" href="https://codepen.io/eibwen/pen/BbrMzg">https://codepen.io/eibwen/pen/BbrMzg</a>

More interesting than the strategy is the coding style. The first uses a very functional style using many array functions and a `Map` data structure. Note the absence of `var` and `let`. Now contrast to the second solution using `let` and for loops.

So which is better? As always, it depends! To a modern JavaScript developer the first is more readable at first glance. But the second uses more widely known constructs which perform faster. Overall it's difficult to tell which will have better performance as it depends on the input data. Both short-circuit at different points in the process, the first when it finds a direction is a dead end, the second when it finds the word in one of the directions.
